# Indicium-Blockchain
Indicium is a simple, local cryptocurrency created with the same mathematical principles as Bitcoin. It is fully functioning, and allows the creation of Wallets, Transactions, and Mining. This blockchain is based off of the Bitcoin Core Reference and was created via a tutorial by Kass from Programmers' Blockchain.

Indicium is based on the Bitcoin protocol and follows much of the same mathematical and computational principles. It uses the same consensus mechanism (i.e. Proof-of-Work, however the difficulty is much less), as well as the same method of mining blocks and creating/verifiying transactions. Users have wallets within which they store any Indiciums they own, and these wallets are very similar to the ones used in the Bitcoin protocol. Wallets operate using Public-Key Cryptography (the key pair is generated via Elliptic-curve cryptography). 

This cryptocurrency was created with the intent of demonstrating how a decentralized and distributed virtual currency functions and how it is coded. This repository offers a glimpse as to how a blockchain functions, how it can be used, and the implications this presents in the field of economics and finance. Indicium provides a look into the inner workings of a blockchain & cryptocurrency, and serves as a practical implementation of a 'real-world' blockchain. The code is fully documented, and offers a high-level abstraction of every class and function.

This repository acts much as the Bitcoin's Core Reference, however it is significantly smaller and less complex, as well as not intended for commercial or public use/distribution.
